Jake Woodlee
George Sarantinos

Databases Homework Assignment Number One

Chapter 1

Give examples of systems in which it may make sense to use traditional file processing instead of a database approach.
    Any system that needs a very little amount of data.  An example of this a graphing calculator, or a programmable keyboard.



    a. 'Course_number', 'Department', and 'Prerequisite_number' columns
    b. Yes, first remove the 'Department' column, since the Department is built into the 'Course_number'.  Then,
    concatenate the 'Prerequisite_number' onto the end of the 'Course_number', and then there is only one column that needs to be modified with the Department name change.

Chapter 2

What is the difference between a database schema and a database state?
    A database schema is not intended to change frequently because it is the overall conceptual design of the database.
    Conversely, a database state is the actual data stored in the database at a particular point in time, which is continually accessed and modified.

Discuss the different types of user-friendly interfaces and the types of users who typically use each.
    "Menu-Based Interfaces for Web Clients or Browsing"
        This allows users to formulate requests via a menu in a systematic, step based process.
        No query language knowledge is required, types of users include: any user requesting information
        from a database on the web.  Example: accessing insurance data online.

    "Forms-Based Interfaces"
        Naive users can fill out forms that allow for easy interaction with the database.  These forms can be created
        using special form-based languages.
        Example: Creating new social media entry or account.

    "Graphical User Interfaces"
        Typically, this is embodied in a diagram which a user can then manipulate in order to construct their query.
        Example, uploading photo and modifying database by dragging it into a box.

    "Natural Language Interfaces"
        A set of natural language commands that are interpreted into query commands.


        Example: Google search


    "Speech Input and Output"
    "Interfaces for Parametric Users"
    "Interfaces for DBA"

If you were designing a Web-based system to make airline reservations and sell airline tickets, which DBMS architecture would you choose from Section 2.5?
Why? Why would the other architectures not be a good choice?


Chapter 3

Why are tuples in a relation not ordered?
    In Math, sets are unordered, and since a relation is a set of tuples, there is no order in a relation.
    Furthermore, "tuple ordering is not part of relation definition because a relation attempts to represent facts at a logical or abstract level." (Elmasri 64)

Why do we designate one of the candidate keys of a relation to be the primary key?
    The primary key is used to identify a tuple (often represented as a row in a table) in a relation (often represented as a table).  The primary key is
    usually selected by choosing the candidate key with a single or the least amount of attributes.

Define foreign key.  What is this concept used for?
    A foreign key is a value in a tuple that references a primary key of another relation.  It is used to create
    referential integrity, so that consistency among tuples holding the same values can be established.

Consider the relation CLASS(Course#, Univ_Section#, Instructor_name, Semester, Building_code, Room#, Time_period, Weekdays, Credit_hours).
This represents classes taught in a university, with unique Univ_section#s.
Identify what you think should be various candidate keys,
and write in your own words the conditions or assumptions under which each candidate key would be valid.
    I would assign the Univ_Section#, to be candidate keys.


Recent changes in privacy laws have disallowed organizations from using Social Security numbers to identify individuals unless certain restrictions are satisfied.
As a result, most U.S. universities cannot use SSNs as primary keys [except for financial data].
In practice, Sutend_id, a unique identifier assigned to every student,
is likely to be used as the primary key rather than SSN since Student_id can be used throughout the system.
c. What are the advantages and disadvantages of using generated [surrogate] keys?
